Updated QD to 1 (#16)
ros2/spdlog_vendor: SPDLOG_QUALITY_DECLARATION.md

# `spdlog` Quality Declaration

This quality declaration claims that `spdlog` is in the **Quality Level 1** category.

Though `spdlog` meets many of the criteria stated for software quality.

> As `spdlog` itself is not a ROS package, many of these gaps could be reconciled in the vendor package that is used to control `spdlog` distribution within ROS.

Reviewer: I'm not entirely sure what we are trying to say with these two sentences, but it is unclear.  Maybe something like:

```
The upstream code of `spdlog` meets many, but not all of the criteria stated for Quality Level 1.
As `spdlog` is not a ROS package, these gaps are reconciled in the vendor package within ROS 2.
See ./QUALITY_DECLARATION.md for more details.
```

# `spdlog` Quality Declaration

This quality declaration claims that `spdlog` is in the **Quality Level 1** category.

Though `spdlog` meets many of the criteria stated for software quality.
As `spdlog` itself is not a ROS package, many of these gaps could be reconciled in the vendor package that is used to control `spdlog` distribution within ROS.

> Engagement with the upstream development team to define policies for versioning, API/ABI stability and enforcing peer review would lead to higher quality, and could increase the level category for `spdlog` in a subsequent review.

Reviewer: If we are justifying this as QL 1, we should just get rid of this whole paragraph.

Author: https://github.com/ros2/spdlog_vendor/pull/16/commits/f26283584e93662e173724ca439a28ca380fae40

### API Stability Policy [1.iv]

> There is no policy for API stability. However, the vendored package `spdlog_vendor` package importing the `spdlog dependency` is using a fixed version, in this case [1.6.1](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog/releases/tag/v1.6.1), which will provide API stability to downstream packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is no policy for API stability. However, the vendored package `spdlog_vendor` package importing the `spdlog` dependency is using a fixed version, in this case [1.6.1](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog/releases/tag/v1.6.1), which will provide API stability to downstream packages.
```

### Feature Testing [4.i]

> `sdplog` is pinned to a specific version v1.6.1 is the vendor package, for this reason we not including this tests in the continuous integration because the code is not

Reviewer 2: I think this is missing some more context. How about something along the lines of:

---

Each feature in `spdlog` has corresponding tests which simulate typical usage, and they are located in [link to test source code](). The result of these tests can be found at:

 - [Linux](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [macOS](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [Windows](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/gabime/spdlog/builds/33133070)

`spdlog` is pinned to a specific version by its vendor package, so we're fixed to a fixed set of features.

Reviewer 2: @ahcorde , sorry, I meant that we should link to where the tests live where it says "link to test source code"

going to change. The result of this test can be found here:
 - [Linux](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [macOS](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [Windows](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/gabime/spdlog/builds/33133070)

### Public API Testing [4.ii]

> `sdplog` is pinned to a specific version v1.6.1 is the vendor package, for this reason we not including this tests in the continuous integration because the code is not

Reviewer 2: The same as what was said for the feature testing

going to change. The result of this test can be found here:
 - [Linux](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [macOS](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [Windows](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/gabime/spdlog/builds/33133070)

### Coverage [4.iii]

> Latest code coverage can be found [here](https://ci.ros2.org/job/ci_linux_coverage/lastSuccessfulBuild/cobertura/).

Reviewer 2: Looking at that link, the coverage for spdlog looks very low. As an external observer, I don't understand how those numbers satisfy REP-2004. For example, `build.spdlog_vendor.spdlog-1.6.1-prefix.src.spdlog-1.6.1.include.spdlog` has 106/960 lines covered.

### Feature Testing [4.i]

Each feature in spdlog has corresponding tests which simulate typical usage, and they are located in link to test source code. The result of these tests can be found at:
 - [Linux](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [macOS](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [Windows](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/gabime/spdlog/builds/33133070)

`spdlog` is pinned to a specific version by its vendor package, so we're fixed to a fixed set of features.

### Public API Testing [4.ii]

`spdlog` has API tests which simulate typical usage, and they are located in link to test source code. The result of these tests can be found at:
 - [Linux](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [macOS](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [Windows](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/gabime/spdlog/builds/33133070)

`spdlog` is pinned to a specific version by its vendor package, so we're fixed to a fixed API.

### Coverage [4.iii]

> ROS 2 is using partially the `spdlog`'s API. Latest code coverage can be found [here](https://ci.ros2.org/job/ci_linux_coverage/lastSuccessfulBuild/cobertura/). The result shows the API that is being used in the ROS 2 codebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROS 2 is only using part of `spdlog`'s API. Latest code coverage can be found [here](https://ci.ros2.org/job/ci_linux_coverage/lastSuccessfulBuild/cobertura/). The result shows the API that is being used in the ROS 2 codebase.
```

I guess my other problem with this statement is that it is hard to see what part of the `spdlog` API is being used with the link given.  What exactly would a reader be looking for?

Author: The point here it's to explain that `spdlog` coverage is not complete in the coverage results because we are focus in the portion of API that we are using in the ROS 2 codebase. 

should we include the API functions that we are using in the ROS 2 codebase ?

Reviewer: > should we include the API functions that we are using in the ROS 2 codebase ?

Yeah, I think that explaining which APIs we are using, and then explaining or showing coverage of just those features/APIs would make a lot more sense to me.

Author: something like this https://github.com/ros2/spdlog_vendor/pull/16/commits/8afd3d3ed0839f7cacf21024206c942d17b51041 or it's too little

Reviewer: I would say that is a good start.  But for a reader of this QD, how can they tell that those APIs are being covered in the current tests?  We should have a link to either the upstream tests, or our tests, that makes it clear where those APIs are being exercised.

### Feature Testing [4.i]

> Each feature in spdlog has corresponding tests which simulate typical usage, and they are located in link to test source code. The result of these tests can be found at:

Reviewer 2: @ahcorde , sorry, I meant that we should link to where the tests live where it says "link to test source code"

`spdlog` is pinned to a specific version by its vendor package, so we're fixed to a fixed set of features.

### Public API Testing [4.ii]

`spdlog` has API tests which simulate typical usage, and they are located in link to test source code. The result of these tests can be found at:
 - [Linux](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [macOS](https://travis-ci.org/github/gabime/spdlog/builds/691497445)
 - [Windows](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/gabime/spdlog/builds/33133070)

`spdlog` is pinned to a specific version by its vendor package, so we're fixed to a fixed API.

### Coverage [4.iii]

ROS 2 is only using part of `spdlog`'s API. Latest code coverage can be found [here](https://ci.ros2.org/job/ci_linux_coverage/lastSuccessfulBuild/cobertura/). The result shows the API that is being used in the ROS 2 codebase.

In particular ROS 2 is using the [logger class](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog/blob/v1.x/include/spdlog/logger.h#L46), the [pattern formatter](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog/blob/v1.x/include/spdlog/pattern_formatter-inl.h) and the [basic sink](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog/blob/v1.x/include/spdlog/sinks/base_sink-inl.h).

> Tests are located [here](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog/blob/v1.6.1/tests/). In particular there are some of then which coverages the used API, for example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tests are located [here](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog/blob/v1.6.1/tests/). In particular there are some of them which cover the used API, for example
```

### Vulnerability Disclosure Policy [7.i]

> The Vulnerability Disclosure Policy it's defined in the vendored Quality Declaration.

Reviewer 2: Let's point to our own policy, for issues that affect ROS 2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Vulnerability Disclosure Policy is defined in the vendored Quality Declaration.
```
